# quantitative_financial_planner
A financial planner for emergencies and retirement planning. 

## Usage
This project has 2 parts, a financial planner for emergencies, and a retirement planner.  The financial planner for emergencies section calculates the current value of a portfolio consisting of stocks, bonds, and cryptocurrency.  It utilizes alpaca (you will need to provide your own alpaca secret key) and free crypto api to calculate the current value of the portfolio through the last business day.  Once this is calculated, you can call the *enough_for_emergency_fund()* function. This takes in the portfolio value and the amount of the emergency fund (3*client's monthly income) and determines whether or not the client has enough saved in case of an emergency.  Part 2, the retirement planner, employs Monte Carlo simulations to forcast various retirement possibilities using different time horizons and experimenting with the ratio of stocks to bonds.  In this example, I used a portfolio with 60% invested in $SPY and 40% invested in $AGG with a 30 year time horizon and a portfolio with 80% invested in $SPY and 20% invested in $AGG with a 30 year time horizon.  The data is visualized with the .plot_simulation() and .plot_distribution() functions. It also employs the .summarize_cumulative_return() function for a deeper analysis of the possible outcomes. 

## Technologies
The code is written in Python using jupyter notebook and uses the pandas, MCForcastTools4, os, requests, json, and dotenv. It also uses the alpaca api (https://app.alpaca.markets/brokerage/new-account/greeting) and free crypto api (https://alternative.me/crypto/api/).  The Monte Carlo simulations are conducted with 